README for vcpkg repo (#178)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/readme/vcpkg-README.md

---
title: Microsoft/vcpkg README
description: README for vcpkg registry
zone_pivot_group_filename: zone-pivot-groups.json
zone_pivot_groups: shell-selections
author: JavierMatosD
ms.author: javiermat
ms.date: 10/17/2023
ms.prod: vcpkg
ROBOTS: NOINDEX
---

# vcpkg: Overview

> vcpkg helps you manage C and C++ libraries on Windows, Linux and MacOS.

Reviewer: I suggest adding the opening paragraph from the overview page documentation here instead of this sentence (for consistency): 

vcpkg is a free and open-source C/C++ package manager maintained by Microsoft and the C++ community. Initially launched in 2016 as a tool for assisting developers in migrating their projects to newer versions of Visual Studio, vcpkg has evolved into a cross-platform tool used by developers on Windows, macOS, and Linux. vcpkg has a large catalog of open-source libraries and enterprise-ready features designed to facilitate your development process with support for any build and project systems. vcpkg is a C++ tool at heart and is written in C++ with scripts in CMake. It is designed from the ground up to address the unique pain points C/C++ developers experience.

Reviewer: Also worth adding a link to our docs at the end of the paragraph.

> This tool and ecosystem are constantly evolving, and we always appreciate contributions!

Reviewer: This is an opportunity to link to the new tutorial: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/vcpkg/get_started/get-started-adding-to-registry?pivots=shell-cmd

Also a good idea to link to the maintainer guide: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/vcpkg/contributing/maintainer-guide

If you've never used vcpkg before, or if you're trying to figure out how to use vcpkg,

> check out our [guide to start using vcpkg](../get_started/get-started.md).

Reviewer: This sentence feels superfluous given that there is a "Getting Started" section later that requests the user go to the same tutorial.

For a short description of all available commands, run `vcpkg help`. Run `vcpkg help [command name]` for help on a specific command.

* GitHub: ports at [Microsoft/vcpkg](<https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg>), program at [Microsoft/vcpkg-tool](<https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg-tool>)
* Slack: [C++ Alliance's Slack server](<https://cppalliance.org/slack/>), in the #vcpkg channel
* Discord: [\#include \<C++\>'s Discord server](<https://www.includecpp.org>), in the #🌏vcpkg channel
* Docs: [Documentation](/vcpkg)

# Getting Started

> First, follow the [quick start guide](../get_started/get-started.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, follow the [Install and use packages with vcpkg tutorial](../get_started/get-started.md).
```

If a library you need is not present in the vcpkg catalog, you can [open an issue on the GitHub repo][contributing:submit-issue] where the vcpkg team and community can see it, and potentially add the port to vcpkg.

After you've gotten vcpkg installed and working, you may wish to add [tab completion](#tab-completionauto-completion) to your shell.

> ## Quick Start: Windows

Reviewer: I think we should just link to our getting started documentation which is more up to date and includes manifest mode instructions. This suggestion applies to all the OS pivots here.

::: zone pivot="shell-bash"

```sh
$ ./vcpkg integrate bash # or zsh
```

::: zone-end

# Resources

See the [documentation](/vcpkg) for specific walkthroughs, including [getting started with CMake](../get_started/get-started.md), [getting started with Visual Studio](../get_started/get-started-vs.md), and [publishing packages to a private vcpkg registry](../produce/publish-to-a-git-registry.md).

We really appreciate any and all feedback! You can submit an issue in https://github.com/vcpkg/vcpkg.github.io/issues.

See a 4 minute [video demo](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=y41WFKbQFTw).

[getting-started:using-a-package]: https://learn.microsoft.com/vcpkg/examples/installing-and-using-packages
[getting-started:git]: https://git-scm.com/downloads
[getting-started:cmake-tools]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.cmake-tools
[getting-started:linux-gcc]: #installing-linux-developer-tools
[getting-started:macos-dev-tools]: #installing-macos-developer-tools
[getting-started:macos-brew]: #installing-gcc-on-macos
[getting-started:macos-gcc]: #installing-gcc-on-macos
[getting-started:visual-studio]: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/
# Contributing

> Vcpkg is an open source project, and is thus built with your contributions. Here are some ways you can contribute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
vcpkg is an open source project and is thus built with your contributions. Here are some ways you can contribute:
```

---
title: Microsoft/vcpkg README
description: README for vcpkg registry
author: JavierMatosD
ms.author: javiermat
ms.date: 10/17/2023
ms.prod: vcpkg
ROBOTS: NOINDEX
---

> # Vcpkg: Overview

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# vcpkg: Overview
```

vcpkg helps you manage C and C++ libraries on Windows, Linux and MacOS.
This tool and ecosystem are constantly evolving, and we always appreciate contributions!

> If you've never used vcpkg before, or if you're trying to figure out how to use vcpkg,
> check out our [Getting Started](#getting-started) section for how to start using vcpkg.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you've never used vcpkg before, or if you're trying to figure out how to use vcpkg,
check out our [guide to start using vcpkg](../get_started/get-started.md).
```

We should link to the `Get Started` guide on Learn instead of having the same content on this file.

> For short description of available commands, once you've installed vcpkg,
> you can run `vcpkg help`, or `vcpkg help [command]` for command-specific help.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a short description of all available commands, run `vcpkg help`. Run `vcpkg help [command name]` for help on a specific command.
```

> * GitHub: ports at [https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg), program at [https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg-tool](https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg-tool)
> * Slack: [https://cppalliance.org/slack/](https://cppalliance.org/slack/), the #vcpkg channel
> * Discord: [\#include \<C++\>](https://www.includecpp.org), the #🌏vcpkg channel
> * Docs: [Documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/vcpkg)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* GitHub: ports at [Microsoft/vcpkg](<https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg>), program at [Microsoft/vcpkg-tool](<https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg-tool>)
* Slack: [C++ Alliance's Slack server](<https://cppalliance.org/slack/>), in the #vcpkg channel
* Discord: [\#include \<C++\>'s Discord server](<https://www.includecpp.org>), in the #🌏vcpkg channel
* Docs: [Documentation](<https://learn.microsoft.com/vcpkg>)
```

The last link should point to the vcpkg overview (once we have it).

> # Table of Contents
> 
> - [Vcpkg: Overview](#vcpkg-overview)
> - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
> - [Getting Started](#getting-started)
>   - [Quick Start: Windows](#quick-start-windows)
>   - [Quick Start: Unix](#quick-start-unix)
>   - [Installing Linux Developer Tools](#installing-linux-developer-tools)
>   - [Installing macOS Developer Tools](#installing-macos-developer-tools)
>   - [Using vcpkg with CMake](#using-vcpkg-with-cmake)
>     - [Visual Studio Code with CMake Tools](#visual-studio-code-with-cmake-tools)
>     - [Vcpkg with Visual Studio CMake Projects](#vcpkg-with-visual-studio-cmake-projects)
>     - [Vcpkg with CLion](#vcpkg-with-clion)
>     - [Vcpkg as a Submodule with CMake](#vcpkg-as-a-submodule-with-cmake)
> - [Tab-Completion/Auto-Completion](#tab-completionauto-completion)
> - [Examples](#examples)
> - [Contributing](#contributing)
> - [License](#license)
> - [Security](#security)
> - [Telemetry](#telemetry)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```
-DCMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE=[vcpkg root]/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake
```

You must add this line to each profile.

### Vcpkg as a Submodule with CMake

When using vcpkg as a submodule of your project,
you can add the following to your CMakeLists.txt before the first `project()` call,
instead of passing `CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE` to the cmake invocation.

```cmake
set(CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE "${CMAKE_CURRENT_SOURCE_DIR}/vcpkg/scripts/buildsystems/vcpkg.cmake"
  CACHE STRING "Vcpkg toolchain file")
```

This will still allow people to not use vcpkg,
by passing the `CMAKE_TOOLCHAIN_FILE` directly,
but it will make the configure-build step slightly easier.

[getting-started:using-a-package]: https://learn.microsoft.com/vcpkg/examples/installing-and-using-packages
[getting-started:git]: https://git-scm.com/downloads
[getting-started:cmake-tools]: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.cmake-tools
[getting-started:linux-gcc]: #installing-linux-developer-tools
[getting-started:macos-dev-tools]: #installing-macos-developer-tools
[getting-started:macos-brew]: #installing-gcc-on-macos
[getting-started:macos-gcc]: #installing-gcc-on-macos

> [getting-started:visual-studio]: https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/

Reviewer 2: Let's make sure that all of this is covered in the new **Get Started** articles and remove these sections from the README.

Author: I've removed a bunch of sections that were already included in the get-started articles. I've left information I felt wasn't in those articles yet. I'm working on trying to incorporate some of the developer tools required for UNIX platforms

# Tab-Completion/Auto-Completion

`vcpkg` supports auto-completion of commands, package names,
and options in both powershell and bash.
To enable tab-completion in the shell of your choice, run:

```pwsh
> .\vcpkg integrate powershell
```

or

```sh
$ ./vcpkg integrate bash # or zsh
```

depending on the shell you use, then restart your console.

> # Examples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Resources
```
